# 参考文献_本书的内容一部分是基于我自己的研究，一部分则仰仗其...

理解现代政治（全十册）（严密论证，透彻分析，廓清现实，直面复杂 理想国出品）

参考文献

本书的内容一部分是基于我自己的研究，一部分则仰仗其他学者的成果。我的学术论文都公布在个人网页上，可以通过谷歌搜索我的名字找到。本书中提到的研究成果如下：

作者本人

“Post-Conflict Reconstruction: What Policies Are Distinctive.”

Journal of African Economies

（forthcoming）.

“International Political Economy: Some African Applications.”

Journal of African Economies

17 （2008）: 110–139.

“Implications of Ethnic Diversity.”

Economic Policy

16, no. 32 （2001）: 127–166.

合作论文

With Anke Hoeffler

“Unintended Consequences: Does Aid Promote Arms Races?”

Oxford Bulletin of Economics and Statistics

69, no. 1 （2007）: 1–27.

“Civil War.” In

Handbook of Defense Economics

, vol. 2, edited by Keith Hartley and Todd Sandler, 711–739. Amsterdam: Elsevier, 2007.

“Military Expenditure in Post-Conflict Societies.”

Economics of Governance

7 （2006）: 89–107.

“Greed and Grievance in Civil War.”

Oxford Economic Papers

56, no. 4 （2004）: 563–595.

With Anke Hoeffler and Dominic Rohner

“Beyond Greed and Grievance: Feasibility and Civil War.”

Oxford Economic Papers

（forthcoming）.

With Anke Hoeffler and Mans Söderbom

“Post-Conflict Risks.”

Journal of Peace Research

（2008）.

With Robert Bates, Anke Hoeffler, and Steve O’Connell

“Endogenizing Syndromes.” In

The Political Economy of Economic Growth in Africa, 1960–2000

, edited by Benno Ndulu, Steve O’Connell, Robert Bates, Paul Collier, and Chukwuma Soludo, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008, 391–418.

With Dominic Rohner

“Democracy, Development and Conflict.”

Journal of the European Economic Association

6, nos. 2–3 （2008）: 531–540.

With Christopher Adam and Victor Davies

“Post-Conflict Monetary Reconstruction.”

World Bank Economic Review

22 （2008）: 87–112.

With Lisa Chauvet

“What Are the Preconditions for Policy Turnarounds in Failing States?”

Conflict Management and Peace Science

（2008）.

With Lisa Chauvet and Havard Hegre

“The Security Challenge in Conflict-Prone Countries.” In

Copenhagen Consensus

, 2nd edition, edited by B. Lomberg. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2008.

其他学者的论文

Alberto Alesina and Eliana La Ferrara. “Ethnic Diversity and Economic Performance.”

Journal of Economic Literature

43, no. 3 （2005）: 762–800.

Abigail Barr. “Trust and Expected Trustworthiness: Experimental Evidence from Zimbabwean Villages.”

Economic Journal

113 （2003）: 614–630.

Tim Besley.

Principled Agents? The Political Economy of Good Government.

Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006.

Tim Besley and Masayuki Kudamatsu. “Making Autocracy Work.”

CEPR Discussion Papers

, no. 6371 （2007）.

Stefano DellaVigna and Eliana La Ferrara. “Detecting Illegal Arms Trade.”

NBER Working Papers

no. 13355 （2007）.

Avinash Dixit.

Lawlessness and Economics: Alternative Modes of Governance.

Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2004.

Azar Gat.

War in Human Civilization

. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2006.

Patrick Geary.

The Myth of Nations: The Medieval Origins of Europe.

Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2002.

Philip Killicoat. “Cheap Guns, More War? The Economics of Small Arms.”

M.Phil. economics thesis,

University of Oxford, 2006.

Mwangi Kimenyi and Njuguna Ndung’u. “Sporadic Ethnic Violence: Why Has Kenya Not Experienced a Full-Blown Civil War?” In

Understanding Civil War

（

Volume 1: Africa

）, edited by Paul Collier and Nicholas Sambanis. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, 2005,123–156.

Edward Miguel. “Tribe or Nation? Nation-Building and Public Goods in Kenya Versus Tanzania.”

World Politics

56, no. 3 （2004）: 327–362.

Colin Renfrew.

Prehistory: The Making of the Human Mind

. London: Weidenfeld and Nicolson, 2007