# 资料来源_《寻路中国》的主要内容基于我本人的观察所作的研究成...

资料来源

资料来源

《寻路中国》的主要内容基于我本人的观察所作的研究成果，不过在有些章节里，我也采用了一些公开出版的资料，以及与专业人员进行的访谈。我在本书中未采用脚注，是因为大多数读者觉得在非虚构类叙述作品中采用脚注会干扰阅读进程（大多数读者也乐于将这一部分忽略不计）。不过，我还是要向每一个愿意以此从事研究工作的读者明白地交代我所采用的一些资料来源。按照出现的先后顺序，我用页码列出了参考文献。

本书是一本非虚构类文学作品，但我还是尽可能地做到了精确细致。我没有刻意地对各个事件、各个细节和先后顺序加以改变，任何差错都是偶然所致。在全书中，我一律采用了真名。只有魏嘉的小学同学是个例外，我把那些孩子的名字做了一些改变。

针对本书的研究工作进行于2001年至2009年间，在此期间，一些重要的数据发生了较大幅度的变化。根据中国国家统计局所做的估计，中国外出务工的流动人口总数从2001年的八千九百六十一万增加到了2006年的一亿三千二百一十二万。目前，多数专家认为这一数据已经超过了一亿四千万。不过，这也只能算是粗略的估计而已，因为要跟踪调查流动人员极度不易，甚至于还难以对流动人员作出准确的定义。

在这八年时间里，货币之间的汇率也在不断改变着。因此，我并没有在全书采用统一的美元兑换率。相反，我在计算的时候，参照了不同时间的汇率。

BOOK I：THE WALL

Part I

5 almost a thousand new drivers：According to China's National Bureau of Statistics，the number of registered automobile drivers in Beijing increased by 300，000 in 2001.

5 223. If you come to a road：Chinese driving laws are national，and they are listed in the "Zhonghua Renmin Gongheguo Jiaotong Anquan Fa" ［"The People's Republic of China Traffic Safety Laws"］. Driving examinations are similar from place to place，but there are slight regional variations. I researched training methods and testing in the city of Lishui，in Zhejiang Province. The Lishui Public Safety Traffic Bureau provided me with a copy of their official study booklet，which lists questions that appear on the exam. The study booklet is entitled "Lishui Shi Qiche Jiashiren：Like Peixun Fuxi Ziliao" ［"Lishui City Automobile Drivers：Scientific Training Review Materials"］. All quoted exam questions come from this study booklet.

7 "The Chinese Automobile Driver's Book of Maps"：

Zhongguo Qiche Siji Dituce. Beijing：Zhongguo Ditu Chubanshe ［Sinomaps］，2001.

8 By 1931，more than two dozen places：For background on how the Chinese converted ancient city walls into roads：

Campanella，Thomas J. "'The Civilising Road'：American Influence on the Development of Highways and Motoring in China，1900-1949." The Journal of Transport History 26，no. 1 （March 2005）：pp. 78-98.

9 modernizers turned their attention to the Great Wall：For the Chinese plan to convert the Great Wall into a highway：

Lei Sheng. "Changcheng Zhu Lu Zhi Feiwu Liyong" ［Using Waste Material to Build a Road on the Great Wall］. Shenbao Qiche Zengkan ［Shenbao Automobile Supplement］ 76 （May 12，1923）：pp. 2-3.

Liu Huru. "Changcheng" ［Great Wall］. Xuesheng Zazhi ［Students' Magazine］ 18，no. 3 （March 1931）：pp. 75-76.

13 the Ming dynasty avoided building the Great Wall：For the influence of feng shui beliefs on wall construction near the Ming tombs：

Hong Feng. "Longquan Yu Zhi Shifo Si Duan Bian Chengyin Tijie"

［Notes on Contributing Factors to the Lack of Great Wall From

Longquan Valley to Stone Buddha Temple］. Zhongguo Changcheng

Bowuguan ［China Great Wall Museum］ 21，no. 1 （2006）：pp. 52-63.

15 The first major construction campaign：For the history of the American Red Cross road-building campaign，see the article by Thomas J. Campanella：Ibid.

16 similar to the United States in 1911：According to China's National Bureau of Statistics，there were 9，939，600 passenger vehicles in 2001.this figure includes cars and buses，but not trucks. According to The Statistical History of the United States，there were 618，727 registered automobiles in 1911，for a ratio of 152 people for every car. By 1912，it had dropped to 106. （There were no registered buses at that time.）

22 there isn't a single scholar at any university in the world who specializes in the Great Wall：Arthur Waldron，now at the University of Pennsylvania，researched the Great Wall during the early part of his career，but he has since moved to other subjects. Julia Lovell at Cambridge University published The Great Wall：China Against the World，1000 BC-AD 2000，a broad historical survey that describes，in part，cultural interpretations of the wall. Apart from that project，Lovell has not specialized in the Great Wall.

23 In the eighteenth century，Western explorers and missionaries：For background on Western confusion about the history of the Great Wall：

Waldron，Arthur. The Great Wall of China：From History to Myth. Cambridge：Cambridge University Press，1990.

23 claimed that the Great Wall is visible to the human eye from the moon：Warwick，Adam. "A Thousand Miles Along the Great Wall of China."

National Geographic XLII，no. 2 （February 1923）：pp. 114-43.

27 China had about one-fifth：The figures in this paragraph come from the National Bureau of Statistics.

29 use of headlights was banned：

United Press International. "Light in China." January 4，1984.

34 "They come like hurricanes：This quotation is from Han Anguo，the minister of censorship in 134 BC. It can be found in：

Jagchid，Sechin，and Van Jay Symons. Peace，War，and Trade Along the Great Wall：Nomadic- Chinese Interaction through Two Millennia. Bloomington：Indiana University Press，1989. Page 60.

34 "is like attacking a shadow"：This quotation comes from the Han dynasty official Zhufu Yan in 200 BC. Also found in Jagchid and Symons，page 57.

34 "covetous for grain"：This quotation is from the Book of Han，a history completed in AD 111. It can be found on page 33 in Arthur Waldron's book about the Great Wall. Other quotes in this section are from my interviews with Waldron.

35 the Chinese response：The material in this section，which concerns the various strategies employed by the Ming in their attempt to manage the nomads，comes from the research of the independent historian David Spindler. Spindler's project on the Great Wall is ongoing，and most of his findings have yet to be published. He gave me an introduction to his work over the course of many interviews and several journeys to the Great Wall near Beijing. For background on Spindler's methodology and conclusions about the Wall，see my magazine profile of him：

Hessler，Peter. "Walking the Wall." The New Yorker，May 21，2007.

37 a major tremor in 1556：

Chen Genyuan. "Ming Dai Guanzhong Da Dizhen Dui Shanxi Wenwu Zaocheng de Pohuai" ［Damage to Shaanxi Cultural Relics from the Ming Dynasty Guanzhong Earthquake］. Shoucang ［Collection］，August 2008.

53 the Ordos Desert：For the relationship between the Ordos Desert and the Great Wall，see Arthur Waldron：Ibid.

54 more than one-fourth of China's land suffers from desertification：

Jia Xiaoxia. "Desertification：A Growing Threat in China." Down to Earth：The Newsletter of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification 19 （December 2003）：p. 2.

55 any benefits of willow planting would be short-lived：For background on Wushenqi （also written as Uxin Ju）and environmental issues in the Ordos：

Jiang Hong. "Grassland Campaigns in China's Collective Era：Socialist Policies and Local Initiatives in Uxin Ju，a 'Pastoral Dazhai.'" China's Embedded Activism：Opportunities and Constraints of a Social Movement.

London：Routledge，2008. Pages 89-110.

＿＿. "Reading China's Environmental Crisis：'Mao's War Against Nature' Continues." China Scope （September/ October 2007）：pp. 3-16.

＿＿. "China's Great Green Wall Proves Hollow." The Epoch Times，July 30，2009.

Part II

62 In 1924，Sun Yat-sen：For the history of Sun Yat-sen's correspondence with Henry Ford，and the Chinese switch to the right-hand side of the road，see Thomas J. Campanella：Ibid.

63 a book called Beijing Jeep：

Mann，Jim. Beijing Jeep：A Case Study of Western Business in China. Boulder，Colorado：Westview Press，1997.

64 Volkswagen and General Motors made more profits：For information about profit margins for foreign automakers，I relied on interviews with Michael Dunne，currently managing director of the China office at J. D. Power and Associates. Dunne also provided me with the history of the City Special，as well as background on Chery Automobile Co.

65 the government of Wuhu：For information about Chery，I interviewed a number of workers and company officials in Wuhu，including Lin Zhang，the general manager for Chery's International Division，and Yin Tongyao，the company president. The company's strategy of asking forgiveness rather than permission was explained to me by Chu Changjun，the Communist Party Deputy Secretary of the Wuhu Economic and Technological Development Area. I also spoke with John Dinkel and other foreign consultants and partners. For more information，see my article about Chery：

Hessler，Peter. "Car Town." The New Yorker，September 26，2005.

65 one step away from the complacency that comes with happiness：There are various and often conflicting explanations of the spelling of Chery's name. Here I've relied on what company officials told me in Wuhu.

79 In Genghis Khan's military：For background on Genghis Khan and the rise of the Mongols：

Weatherford，Jack. Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World. New York：Three Rivers Press，2004.

81 Yin Geng's words：Many of these quotations are from David Spindler's unpublished research. He has published an article about Altan Khan and the "Raid of the Scorned Mongol Women"：

Spindler，David. "A Twice-Scorned Mongol Woman，the Raid of 1576，and the Building of the Brick Great Wall." Ming Studies 60 （Fall 2009）.

100 earliest known maps：For a discussion of the earliest known Chinese maps，and the impact of Pei Xiu，see the following article. （In English sources his name is often rendered as Pei Hsiu.）：

Hsu，Mei-Ling. "The Han Maps and Early Chinese Cartography." Annals of the Association of American Geographers 68，issue 1 （March 1978）：pp. 45-60.

100 cartography developed out of astronomy：For background on the history of Western cartography，and contrasts in development with Chinese mapmaking，I interviewed Patricia Seed，a historian at the University of California，Irvine. Her article provides an introduction to early European maps of Africa：

Seed，Patricia. "The Cone of Africa... Took Shape in Lisbon." Humanities 29，no. 6 （November/December 2008）.

113 for Lu Xun：

Roberts，Claire，and Geremie R. Barmé，editors. The Great Wall of China.

Sydney：Powerhouse Publishing，2006. Page 24.

113 "more like a river than a barrier"：

Waldron，Arthur. "Scholarship and Patriotic Education：The Great Wall Conference，1994." China Quarterly 143 （September 1995）：p. 846.

115 we stuck the severed heads：This quotation is from David Spindler's research.

121 "Time seems to have lost all power"：For background on Aurel Stein in China：

Walker，Annabel. Aurel Stein：Pioneer of the Silk Road. Seattle：University of Washington Press，1998.

BOOK II：THE VILLAGE

Part I

138 Even as far back as the seventeenth century：For background on the book culture of imperial China：

Rawski，Evelyn Sakakida. Education and Popular Literacy in Ch'ing China.

Ann Arbor：The University of Michigan Press，1979.

139 texts from the late Ming dynasty：This detail comes from David Spindler's research.

145 in AD 1615，a crew of 2，400 soldiers：David Spindler has transcribed and studied the tablet above Sancha.these details are from his research.

152 118 boys born for every 100 girls：

"Rising Sex-Ratio Imbalance 'A Danger'." China Daily. January 23，2007.

168 estimated that more than one million Chinese had been infected with H.I.V.：At the time of Wei Jia's illness，the Western media carried many reports of unsanitary donor practices in China，and people feared that the country was on the verge of a major epidemic. In 2001，a United Nations report estimated that over one million Chinese had been infected，and they warned of a possible figure of twenty million by 2010. The Chinese government，on the other hand，estimated that there were only 840，000 H.I.V. and AIDS cases in 2003. In the following years，it became clear that the epidemic was not as widespread as many believed. In 2006，the figures were actually reduced：the Chinese government，working with the World Health Organization and the United Nation's AIDS program，estimated that the total number of Chinese H.I.V. and AIDS cases was 650，000. For reference，see the articles below：

Rosenthal，Elisabeth. "China Now Facing an AIDS Epidemic，A Top Aide Admits." The New York Times，August 24，2001.

Yardley，Jim. "New Estimate in China Finds Fewer AIDS Cases." The New York Times，January 26，2006.

Part II

187 average net income for rural people increased by 11 percent：This and the other figures in this section come from "The Rural Land Question in China，" an excellent introduction to rural issues. This paper also gives a concise history of rural land policies since the Revolution. It was prepared by a number of Chinese and American academics who worked in conjunction with the Rural Development Institute. For background，I also spoke with two of the authors of this report，Zhu Keliang and Ye Jianping.

Zhu Keliang et al. "The Rural Land Question in China：Analysis and Recommendations Based on a Seventeen-Province Survey." New York University Journal of International Law and Politics 38，no. 4 （Summer 2006）：pp. 761-839.

188 sixty-six million farmers lost their land：This figure is from a recent summary of China's rural issues，which also includes an analysis of proposed policy changes：

Cheng Li. "Hu Jintao's Land Reform：Ambition，Ambiguity，and Anxiety."

China Leadership Monitor 27 （Winter 2009）.

188 average rural household consisted of 4.55 people：Figures in this section are from Zhu Keliang et al.：Ibid.

192 paving 119，000 miles of rural roads：These figures，and the comparison with the previous half century，were given at a government press conference I attended in Beijing："The Highlights of National Expressway Network Plan，" presented by Zhang Chunxian，Minister of Communications，on January 13，2005.

192 in 2003，nearly half a million Beijing residents acquired their driver's licenses：Total figure was 480，000，according to the National Bureau of Statistics.

193 looked almost exactly like the Chevy Spark：For the controversy regarding the Chery QQ，I spoke with Chery officials and also Timothy P. Stratford，general counsel for General Motors' China Group.

193 dropped by 8.8 percent：This figure comes from the People's Bank of China，and was reported by The New York Times：

Bradsher，Keith. "G. M. to Speed Up Expansion in China" The New York Times，June 8，2004.

193 leaped by 80 percent：This figure is from an interview with Yale Zhang，director of emerging markets vehicle forecasts at CSM Asia.

195 fewer than one in five used a loan：see Bradsher，Keith：Ibid.

203 Falun Gong：For background on the rise of Falun Gong，and the crackdown：

Johnson，Ian. Wild Grass：Three Stories of Change in Modern China. New York：Pantheon Books，2004.

204 hundreds of believers died in custody：This was the figure generally reported by foreign newspapers during the period when the Wei family began to engage in business. Today，estimates are even higher.Amnesty International says that over two thousand believers have died in custody. For a more recent newspaper report：

Jacobs，Andrew. "China Still Presses Crusade Against Falun Gong." The New York Times，April 27，2009.

Part III

225 "Build New Countryside"：For background on this campaign，see Cheng Li：Ibid.

229 "Preserving the Progressiveness"：For background on this campaign：

Yardley，Jim. "China Attacks Its Woes With an Old Party Ritual." The New York Times，March 9，2006.

231 One volume was entitled "A Textbook for Urbanizing the Countryside"：

"Tuijin Nongcun Chengshihua Duben" ［A Textbook for Urbanizing the Countryside］. Huairou Qu Shizheng Guanli Weiyuanhui ［Huairou District Municipal Administration Committee］. July 2005.

233 cigarettes are even subsidized：This detail and the other facts about smoking in China are from my interview with Yang Gonghuan，deputy director general of the Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention.

268 Trouble can start within the Party itself：For background on village elections，and the ways in which dissent sometimes occurs，I spoke with Kevin J. O'Brien，a political scientist who specializes in China at the University of California，Berkeley. See also：

O'Brien，Kevin J.，and Rongbin Han. "Path to Democracy？Assessing Village Elections in China." Journal of Contemporary China 18，no. 60 （June 2009）：pp. 359-378.

BOOK III：THE FACTORY

Part I

281 officials announced plans：Details about China's highway project，and Zhang Chunxian's comments about Condoleezza Rice，are from the government press conference I attended on January 13，2005 （see previous reference）.

282 the Jinliwen Expressway：Background on the new road came from He Jiongwei at the Lishui City Department of Communications.

284 the town had 380 factories：Details about Qiaotou's button production came from Ye Zhengxiang，chairman of the Qiaotou Button Association. The Wuyi Printing Association gave figures for Wuyi's playing card production. Other figures came from the Wenzhou Educational Toy Association，the Wenzhou Shoe and Leather Association，the Wenzhou Smoking Paraphernalia Association，the Shengzhou Neckties Industry Association，and the Datang Textile Socks Industry Company.

291 nearly 80 percent of all Wenzhou entrepreneurs：Details on the educational level of Wenzhou business people，and local economic statistics，are from：

Lu Haoting. "Millionaire School." China Daily，China Business Weekly，January 23，2005.

292 The Jews of the East：

Ye Jiandong. Dongfang Youtairen：50 Wei Wenzhou Shangren de Chuangye Gushi ［The Jews of the East：The Commercial Stories of Fifty Wenzhou Entrepreneurs］. Beijing：Renmin Ribao Chubanshe ［People's Daily Press］，2002.

293 a survey of local male millionaires：

"Wenzhou Qiyejia 2.14 Qinggan Shenghuo Diaocha" ［Valentine's Day Survey of the Love Life of Wenzhou Entrepreneurs］. Caifu ［Fortune Weekly，a supplement of the newspaper Wenzhou Dushibao］ 138 （February 14，2006）：p. 17.

305 Yang Xiaohong：He was the director of Lishui's Economy Trade Committee.

307 Long-term exposure to DMF causes liver damage：

Redlich，Carrie A.，et al. "Liver Disease Associated with Occupational Exposure to the Solvent Dimethylformamide." Annals of Internal Medicine 108，issue 5 （May 1988）：pp. 680-86.

Also see the Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment's "Chronic Toxicity Summary：N，N-Dimethylformanide." December 2000.

Part II

343 annual per capita GDP：This figure，and the statistics about Lishui infrastructure，are from Yang Xiaohong，director of Lishui's Economy Trade Committee.

344 infrastructure investment：This figure，along with the statistic about real estate，is from the local Lishui newspaper：

Lan Yan. "Wo Shi Jingji Baochi Jiao Kuai Zengzhang" ［Our City Maintains a Relatively Fast Rate of Growth］. Chuzhou Wanbao　［Chuzhou Evening News］，July 28，2006，p. 5.

352 Square and Round：For background on this self-help book，see：

Chang，Leslie T. Factory Girls：From Village to City in a Changing China. New York：Spiegel & Grau，2008.

355 Francis Cabot Lowell：For background on Lowell，see the introduction to：

Eisler，Benita，editor. The Lowell Offering：Writings by New England Mill Women （1840-1845）. New York：W. W. Norton & Company，1998.

356 speeding ticket：Background on radar tickets in Zhejiang came from interviews with local police officers.

Part III

378 70 percent of Lishui's total consumption of electricity：This figure is from director Yang Xiaohong.

378 number of Lishui households buying an automobile：

Zhang Qiao. "Mei Qian Hu Jumin Jiating Goumai Yong Qiche 20 Liang" ［For Every Thousand Households，20 New Cars Were Purchased］. Chuzhou Wanbao ［Chuzhou Evening News］，July 27，2006.

393 87，000 "public-order disturbances"："China Handles 87，000 Public Order Disturbance Cases." People's Daily，January 20，2006.

400 Ancient Weir Art Village：For background on the Dagangtou artists' commune，I referred to the local government proposal "Guyan Huaxiang Huibao Cailiao" ［Report on the Ancient Weir Art Village］，as well as：

Lan Weirong. "Lishui Huaxiang Chuangzuo Jidi Zai Quan Sheng Shao Jian" ［The Lishui Artists' Village Creates a Unique Base in the Province］.

Chuzhou Wanbao ［Chuzhou Evening News］，November 29，2006.

Part IV

419 the Yintai real estate company：For background on the Yintai case：

Zhang Daosheng. "Lishui Yintai Fanchan Feifa Jizi An Wancheng Jiezi Hu Zhaiquan Shenbao Shenhe" ［Creditors' Rights Are Declared in the Yintai Real Estate Illegal Fund-Raising Case］. Xinhua，March 4，2009.

Dong Bishui. "Zhejiang Fangchan Shang Da Guimo Mingjian Rongzi Ju Kui 8 Yi Sun Ji 3 Wan Renci" ［Large-scale Privately Invested Zhejiang Company Loses 800 Million Yuan and Damages 30，000 Investor Units］. Zhongguo Qingnian Bao，September 23，2008.

Jiang Dongliang. "FeifaJizi Zhi Huan" ［The Anxiety Over Illegal FundRaising］. Faren，February 2，2009.

420 two-year stimulus plan：

Barboza，David. "China Unveils Sweeping Plan for Economy." The New York Times，November 9，2008.

420 targeted rural regions：For background on the role of rural consumers in the stimulus plan，as well as proposed changes to rural land-use laws，see Cheng Li，"Hu Jintao's Land Reform" （referred to earlier）.

421 national economy was still growing：

Barboza，David. "Economy in China Regains Robust Pace of Growth." The New York Times，July 17，2009.

421 Chinese consumers bought more motor vehicles：

Bradsher，Keith. "China Influence Grows with Its Car Sales." The New York Times，April 21，2009.